docs/api_reference.md, before:

# API 2.0 Reference

The entry point into the Visualization API is a call to the `looker.plugins.visualizations.add` function. This function accepts a _visualization object_, which fully defines your custom visualization.

Here's a dead simple (and very boring) visualization:

```js
looker.plugins.visualizations.add({
	create: function(element, config){
		element.innerHTML = "<h1>Ready to render!</h1>";
	},
	updateAsync: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details, doneRendering){
		var html = "";
		for(var row of data) {
			var cell = row[queryResponse.fields.dimensions[0].name];
			html += LookerCharts.Utils.htmlForCell(cell);
		}
		element.innerHTML = html;
		doneRendering()
	}
});
```


### Environment

Since the Visualization API is plain JavaScript, you can use any JavaScript libraries to visualize your data. 

Your JavaScript code will run in a sandboxed iframe, separate from your Looker instance. All the same, authors of custom visualizations are responsible for ensuring that the code they write is secure.

Just like all web development, supporting different web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox) can occasionally be an issue. The Visualization API works on all browsers that Looker supports, but it's up to you to ensure browser support for your custom code. For example, uses of ES6 such as `let` or `()=>` will work in most browsers, but may cause failures in IE11 or rendering PDFs via PhantomJS.

### Installation

Custom visualizations are installed by defining a manifest via the Admin > Platform > Visualizations form. A manifest consists of a unique string id, a human readable label, the URI of your visualization, and links to any dependencies that you require (ex: d3, jQuery, underscore).

Custom Visualizations should be served as https content externally to looker. If you are migrating from the first version of the custom visualization API, you may have files in your `looker/plugins/visualizations` directory. This location is still accessible and a relative path to your visualization can be supplied, but it is recommended that you migrate your content to a different location. Since the /plugins directory is not in the Shared File System, clustered environments will not have access to your visualization files on all nodes.

## The Visualization Object

##### Required Properties

- `create` _function_

	A function called once, when your visualization is first drawn on the page. This function is expected to set up anything that you'd like your visualization to always have available. You could load a library, or create a set of elements and controls you'll use later.

	[See details about the `create` function &rarr;](#the-create-function)

- `updateAsync` / `update` _function_

	A function that is called every time the state of your visualization may need to change. It will always be called after `create`, and may be called many times, so it should be as fast as possible.

	This function can be called for many reasons, but usually it's when the query to visualize changes, a configuration option was changed, or the visualization was resized.

	There is a synchronous and asynchronous version of this function – you'll only need to specify one. (It's an error to define both.) The async method is more reliable for pdf rendering due to the nature of iframes.

	[See details about these `update` functions &rarr;](#the-updateasync-and-update-functions)

#### Optional Properties

- `options` _object_

   An object detailing options that users can set on your visualization.

	[See details about exposing a configuration UI &rarr;](#presenting-configuration-ui)

- `destroy` _function_  *Not yet implemented in API V2*

	A function that is called just before the visualization is removed from the page. This can be used to clean up any event listeners or other state. It may never be called, for example, if the user closes the window.

#### Added Properties

These properties are added to your object automatically by Looker after the visualization is passed to `looker.plugins.visualizations.add`. You can reference them via `this` within the context of the `create`, `update`, `updateAsync`, and `destroy` functions.

- `addError` _function_

	A function that your visualization code may call to tell the UI to display an error message instead of the visualization. It takes an error object.

	Once an error is added it will remain visible until `clearErrors` is called.

	**Example:**

	```js
	this.addError({
		title: "Two Dimensions Required",
		message: "This really great visualization requires two dimensions."
	});
	```

- `clearErrors` _function_

	A function that your visualization code may call to clear any errors that have been added via `addError`.

	**Example:**

	```js
	this.clearErrors();
	```

- `trigger` _function_

	A function that can be called to trigger an event outside the visualization.

	[See details about events &rarr;](#events)

	**Example:**

	```js
	this.trigger("limit", [20]);
	```

## The `create` function

The `create` function will be passed two parameters, `element` and `config`.

```js
create: function(element, config){
  // Your update code here.
},
```

### Parameters

- `element` _DOMElement_

	A DOM Element representing a container to render your visualization into.

- `config` _object_

	An object representing the values of any configuration [options](#presenting-configuration-ui) that the user has set for this chart.

	**Example**: `{my_configuration_option: "User Value"}`

### Example


## The `updateAsync` and `update` functions

The preferred method of updating your visualization is the `updateAsync` method. This method allows your visualization to perform an asynchronous action, such as loading a file or sending a web request.

This version of the function has an additional parameter, which is a callback to be called when rendering is complete:

```js
updateAsync: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details, done){
	// An example of an asynchronous update, fetching a file.
	d3.request("https://example.com/fun-file.docx").response(function(xhr) {
		// Your update code here that uses this file.
		done();
	});
}
```

Properly letting Looker know when the visualization is done rendering lets Looker optimize PDF rendering and ensures images of visualizations can be properly captured.

Some older visualizations use the `update` function. This still works but is not the preferred method, since Looker cannot know when a visualization is fully rendered. It will be passed five parameters:

```js
update: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details){
  // Your update code here.
}
```


### Parameters

- `data` _array_

	An array of rows representing the current data in the query. May be `null`.

	Each row is an object with the keys representing field names, and the value representing a "cell" object. [Here's details on dealing with the cell object](#rendering-data).

- `element` _DOMElement_

	A DOM Element representing a container to render your visualization into.

- `config` _object_

	An object representing the values of any configuration [options](#presenting-configuration-ui) that the user has set for this chart.

	**Example**: `{my_configuration_option: "User Value"}`

- `queryResponse` _object_

	An object representing metadata about the current query, such as meatadata about fields. May be `null`.

- `details` _object_

	Details about the current rendering context. Contains information about why the chart is rendering and what has changed. Usually this information is only used in advanced cases. 
	
	Pertaining to [crossfilters](https://docs.looker.com/dashboards/cross-filtering) in Looker dashboards that use the new dashboard experience, allowed attributes include `crossfilterEnabled` and `crossfilters`.

	The `print` attribute can be used in conjunction with the `done` function to improve PDF rendering for custom visualizations, especially those that include animation. For example:
	
	```js
	if (details.print) {
    	    done();
	}
	```

- `done` _function_

	A callback to indicate that the visualization is fully rendered. This is especially important to call if your visualization needs to perform asynchronous calls or needs to be rendered as a PDF.


## Rendering Data

Looker has a rich set of data formatting tools in LookML that can be used to customize the appearance and behavior of data points. This includes field-level LookML settings like custom value formats, HTML, drill links, and data actions.

Cells have a `value` property, which is the only property guaranteed to exist in all cases. This property is a native JavaScript type that matches the type of the field the cell belongs to. However, it's not safe to insert directly into HTML or SVG, as no HTML escaping has been performed, and some field values are complex JavaScript objects or arrays that will render in undesirable or confusing ways.

To ensure that all visualizations render these items consistently and safely, there are a number of utility functions for turning the cell metadata passed to your chart in `data` into different representations for different purposes. The cell metadata may compress or omit certain fields in some cases, and these helper functions will let you provide a consistent experience.

These are all available on the global `LookerCharts.Utils` object.


- `LookerCharts.Utils.textForCell(cell)`

	This function accepts a cell and returns a string representation of it suitable for display. It will always be a string – this function never returns `null` or any other type.

- `LookerCharts.Utils.htmlForCell(cell)`

	This function accepts a cell and returns a string containing HTML. It will always be a string – this function never returns `null` or any other type.

	The output of this function is properly escaped and suitable for directly inserting into your element's HTML. The output HTML will also correctly display the drill menu on click when appropriate for the data.

- `LookerCharts.Utils.filterableValueForCell(cell)`

	This function accepts a cell and returns a Looker advanced filter syntax string that would match the value of this cell.

- `LookerCharts.Utils.toggleCrossfilter({row, pivot, event})`
	
	This function accepts a row, pivot, or event and is used to check if crossfiltering is enabled for a visualization. For example, to add an event listener to an element that checks if crossfiltering is enabled when the event occurs:

	```js
	d3.select(#myElement)
	.on("click", function (d) {
  		if (details.crossfilterEnabled) {
    			LookerCharts.Utils.toggleCrossfilter({
      				row: d.row,
      				event: d3.event,
    			});
  		} else {
		  ... 
	```

- `LookerCharts.Utils.getCrossfilterSelection(row, pivot?)`

	This function accepts a row or pivot and is used to check if that row or pivot is currently selected in a custom visualization. The function returns an enum for `CrossfilterSelection {NONE, SELECTED, UNSELECTED}` of 0 if `NONE`, 1 if `SELECTED`, and 2 if `UNSELECTED`.

	For example, to conditionally apply a fill color to a row if it is being crossfiltered and apply default colors if crossfiltering is not enabled for that row:

	```js
	d3.select("#myElement")
  	.attr("fill", function (d) {
    	const crossfilter = LookerCharts.Utils.getCrossfilterSelection(d.row)
    	if (details.crossfilterEnabled && crossfilter === 1) {
        		return d.color
      	} else {
        		return "#DEE1E5" //Hex used for unselected elements in native visualizations
	...
	```

- `LookerCharts.Utils.openDrillMenu(options)`

	The output of `htmlForCell` will automatically show the drill menu if needed, but that may not be appropriate for certain types of rendering. (For example, SVG cannot render HTML but you may want to capture a click event to begin a drill.)

	The `options` object has the following parameters:

	- `links` **Required** _array_

		An array of the objects returned from the `links` property of a cell. If you want to display links for multiple cells at once, you may concatenate these arrays together first. For custom links, provide an array of objects with the following form: <pre><code>{ label: _string_, type: 'drill', type_label: _string_, url: _url_ }</code></pre>

	- `element` _DOMElement_

		The element that caused the drill event. Looker will use this to determine where to place the drill menu. If you don't have one, try to pass `event` instead.

	- `event` _HTML DOM Event_

		The click (or other) event that caused the drill event. Looker will use this to determine where to place the drill menu. If you don't have one, try to pass `element` instead.

	**Example:**

	```js
	for (var row in data) {
		foreach(var row in data) {
			var cell = data[queryResponse.fields.dimensions[0].name];
			var cellElement = myBuildElementFunction(cell);
			cellElement.onclick = function(event) {
				LookerCharts.Utils.openDrillMenu({
					links: cell.links,
					event: event
				});
			};
			// ... more visualization stuff...
		}
	}
	```

## Presenting Configuration UI

The `options` parameter is an object where the keys are an arbitrary identifier for an option name, and the value is an object describing information about the option.

Here's an example:

```js
options: {
    color_range: {
      type: "array",
      label: "Color Range",
      display: "colors"
    },
   top_label: {
      type: "string",
      label: "Label (for top)",
      placeholder: "My Great Chart"
    },
    transport_mode: {
      type: "string",
      label: "Mode of Transport",
      display: "select",
      values: [
      	 {"Airplane": "airplane"},
      	 {"Car": "car"},
      	 {"Unicycle": "unicycle"}
      ],
      default: "unicycle"
    }
}
```

### Option Object Parameters

##### Basic Parameters

- `type` _string_

	The data type of the option.

	**Allowed Values:** `string` (default), `number`, `boolean`, `array`

- `label` _string_

	The human-readable label of the option that will be displayed to the user.

- `default`

	The default value of the option. When unspecified, the value of the option is `null`. This should be a value of the same type as `type`.

- `display` _string_

	Certain `type`s can be presented in the UI in different ways.

	- when `type` is `string`:

	   	**Allowed Values:** `text` (default), `select`, `radio`

	- when `type` is `number`:

	   	**Allowed Values:** `number` (default), `range`

	- when `type` is `array`:

	   	**Allowed Values:** `text` (default), `color`, `colors`

- `placeholder` _string_

	For `display` values that support it, an example value or explanation to give the user a hint about what to type.

##### Display-specific properties

- `values` _array_ of _objects_

	When `display` is `radio` or `select`, an array containing labels and values that will be listed in the interface.

	Each item in the array should be an object with a single key-value pair, representing the label and the value of the option. The label will only be presented in the UI, at render time you'll only receive the value.

	**Example:**

	```js
	values: [
		{"Center": "c"},
		{"Left": "l"},
		{"Right": "r"}
	]
	```

	If `display` is `radio`, each option can additionally be given a `description`:

	```js
	values: [
		{"Cool": "c"},
		{"Uncool": {
				value: "unc",
				description: "Only choose this if the data is very uncool."
			}
		}
	]
	```

- `max` _number_

	When `display` is `range`, the maximum number allowed to be selected by the range slider.

- `min` _number_

	When `display` is `range`, the minimum number allowed to be selected by the range slider.

- `step` _number_

	When `display` is `range`, the amount each tick of the range slider represents.

##### Organizing options

- `section` _string_

	For charts with many options, a label for which section an option should appear in. The UI will group the options by their `section` values. If there is only one section, the section UI will not be shown.

	If you're using `section` then it should be set on every option.

- `order` _number_

	A number representing the order of options for presentation in the UI. If specified, the options will be sorted according to this order.

- `display_size` _string_

	A size class representing the width of the option in the UI. For example, if you wanted to show a "Minimum" and a "Maximum" option next to each other, you could set each of their `display_size`s to `half`.

	**Allowed Values:** `normal` (default), `half`, `third`

## Events

Events can be triggered by the chart (usually in response to user interaction) that can update properties of the visualization or query.

They can be triggered by calling the `trigger` function on the visualization object. The first parameter is always the _event name_ and the second parameter is an array of _arguments_.

```js
this.trigger("limit", [20]);
```

#### Available Events

- `updateConfig`

	Update the current configuration settings of the chart.

	**Argument:** an object containing config keys to update. Unspecified keys are not changed.

	**Example:**

	```js
	var vis = this;
	$(element).find(".axis").click(function(){
		vis.trigger("updateConfig", [{axis_hidden: true}]
	});
	```

- `limit`

	Update the limit of the underlying query:

	**Argument:** an integer representing a new limit for the query.

	```js
	var vis = this;
	$(element).find(".show-all").click(function(){
		vis.trigger("limit", [500]);
	});
	```

- `filter`

	Update the value of a filter on the underlying query:

	```js
	var vis = this;
	$(element).find(".show-all-tommys").click(function(){
		vis.trigger("filter", [{
			field: "users.name", // the name of the field to filter
			value: "%tommy%", // the "advanced syntax" for the filter
			run: true, // whether to re-run the query with the new filter
		}]);
	});
	```

- `loadingStart`

	Mark the visualization as loading. Most of the time this isn't neccessary, but if your visualization loads an object from a remote location or performs a long calculation you can use this to continue to display the loading indicator.

	It will appear loading until `loadingEnd` is triggered.

- `loadingEnd`

	Mark the visualization as no longer loading.
	
- `registerOptions` (Looker 5.24+)

	Allows visualizations to register additional options after the visualization has been registered: 

	```
	  update: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details){
	    options = {}
	    // Create an option for each measure in your query
	    queryResponse.fields.measure_like.forEach(function(field) {
	      id = "color_" + field.name
	      options[id] =
	      {
		label: field.label_short + " Color",
		default: "#8B7DA8",
		section: "Style",
		type: "string",
		display: "color"
	      }
	    })
	    this.trigger('registerOptions', options) // register options with parent page to update visConfig
	    ...
	  }
	});
	```

Commit message:

update docs to reflect interaction in iframe. Prior to iframe implementation any javascript object could be passed, current implementation uses postmessage which only allows json serializable objects

docs/api_reference.md, after:

# API 2.0 Reference

The entry point into the Visualization API is a call to the `looker.plugins.visualizations.add` function. This function accepts a _visualization object_, which fully defines your custom visualization.

Here's a dead simple (and very boring) visualization:

```js
looker.plugins.visualizations.add({
	create: function(element, config){
		element.innerHTML = "<h1>Ready to render!</h1>";
	},
	updateAsync: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details, doneRendering){
		var html = "";
		for(var row of data) {
			var cell = row[queryResponse.fields.dimensions[0].name];
			html += LookerCharts.Utils.htmlForCell(cell);
		}
		element.innerHTML = html;
		doneRendering()
	}
});
```


### Environment

Since the Visualization API is plain JavaScript, you can use any JavaScript libraries to visualize your data.

Your JavaScript code will run in a sandboxed iframe, separate from your Looker instance. All the same, authors of custom visualizations are responsible for ensuring that the code they write is secure.

Just like all web development, supporting different web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox) can occasionally be an issue. The Visualization API works on all browsers that Looker supports, but it's up to you to ensure browser support for your custom code. For example, uses of ES6 such as `let` or `()=>` will work in most browsers, but may cause failures in IE11 or rendering PDFs via PhantomJS.

### Installation

Custom visualizations are installed by defining a manifest via the Admin > Platform > Visualizations form. A manifest consists of a unique string id, a human readable label, the URI of your visualization, and links to any dependencies that you require (ex: d3, jQuery, underscore).

Custom Visualizations should be served as https content externally to looker. If you are migrating from the first version of the custom visualization API, you may have files in your `looker/plugins/visualizations` directory. This location is still accessible and a relative path to your visualization can be supplied, but it is recommended that you migrate your content to a different location. Since the /plugins directory is not in the Shared File System, clustered environments will not have access to your visualization files on all nodes.

## The Visualization Object

##### Required Properties

- `create` _function_

	A function called once, when your visualization is first drawn on the page. This function is expected to set up anything that you'd like your visualization to always have available. You could load a library, or create a set of elements and controls you'll use later.

	[See details about the `create` function &rarr;](#the-create-function)

- `updateAsync` / `update` _function_

	A function that is called every time the state of your visualization may need to change. It will always be called after `create`, and may be called many times, so it should be as fast as possible.

	This function can be called for many reasons, but usually it's when the query to visualize changes, a configuration option was changed, or the visualization was resized.

	There is a synchronous and asynchronous version of this function – you'll only need to specify one. (It's an error to define both.) The async method is more reliable for pdf rendering due to the nature of iframes.

	[See details about these `update` functions &rarr;](#the-updateasync-and-update-functions)

#### Optional Properties

- `options` _object_

   An object detailing options that users can set on your visualization.

	[See details about exposing a configuration UI &rarr;](#presenting-configuration-ui)

- `destroy` _function_  *Not yet implemented in API V2*

	A function that is called just before the visualization is removed from the page. This can be used to clean up any event listeners or other state. It may never be called, for example, if the user closes the window.

#### Added Properties

These properties are added to your object automatically by Looker after the visualization is passed to `looker.plugins.visualizations.add`. You can reference them via `this` within the context of the `create`, `update`, `updateAsync`, and `destroy` functions.

- `addError` _function_

	A function that your visualization code may call to tell the UI to display an error message instead of the visualization. It takes an error object.

	Once an error is added it will remain visible until `clearErrors` is called.

	**Example:**

	```js
	this.addError({
		title: "Two Dimensions Required",
		message: "This really great visualization requires two dimensions."
	});
	```

- `clearErrors` _function_

	A function that your visualization code may call to clear any errors that have been added via `addError`.

	**Example:**

	```js
	this.clearErrors();
	```

- `trigger` _function_

	A function that can be called to trigger an event outside the visualization.

	[See details about events &rarr;](#events)

	**Example:**

	```js
	this.trigger("limit", [20]);
	```

## The `create` function

The `create` function will be passed two parameters, `element` and `config`.

```js
create: function(element, config){
  // Your update code here.
},
```

### Parameters

- `element` _DOMElement_

	A DOM Element representing a container to render your visualization into.

- `config` _object_

	An object representing the values of any configuration [options](#presenting-configuration-ui) that the user has set for this chart.

	**Example**: `{my_configuration_option: "User Value"}`

### Example


## The `updateAsync` and `update` functions

The preferred method of updating your visualization is the `updateAsync` method. This method allows your visualization to perform an asynchronous action, such as loading a file or sending a web request.

This version of the function has an additional parameter, which is a callback to be called when rendering is complete:

```js
updateAsync: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details, done){
	// An example of an asynchronous update, fetching a file.
	d3.request("https://example.com/fun-file.docx").response(function(xhr) {
		// Your update code here that uses this file.
		done();
	});
}
```

Properly letting Looker know when the visualization is done rendering lets Looker optimize PDF rendering and ensures images of visualizations can be properly captured.

Some older visualizations use the `update` function. This still works but is not the preferred method, since Looker cannot know when a visualization is fully rendered. It will be passed five parameters:

```js
update: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details){
  // Your update code here.
}
```


### Parameters

- `data` _array_

	An array of rows representing the current data in the query. May be `null`.

	Each row is an object with the keys representing field names, and the value representing a "cell" object. [Here's details on dealing with the cell object](#rendering-data).

- `element` _DOMElement_

	A DOM Element representing a container to render your visualization into.

- `config` _object_

	An object representing the values of any configuration [options](#presenting-configuration-ui) that the user has set for this chart.

	**Example**: `{my_configuration_option: "User Value"}`

- `queryResponse` _object_

	An object representing metadata about the current query, such as meatadata about fields. May be `null`.

- `details` _object_

	Details about the current rendering context. Contains information about why the chart is rendering and what has changed. Usually this information is only used in advanced cases.

	Pertaining to [crossfilters](https://docs.looker.com/dashboards/cross-filtering) in Looker dashboards that use the new dashboard experience, allowed attributes include `crossfilterEnabled` and `crossfilters`.

	The `print` attribute can be used in conjunction with the `done` function to improve PDF rendering for custom visualizations, especially those that include animation. For example:

	```js
	if (details.print) {
    	    done();
	}
	```

- `done` _function_

	A callback to indicate that the visualization is fully rendered. This is especially important to call if your visualization needs to perform asynchronous calls or needs to be rendered as a PDF.


## Rendering Data

Looker has a rich set of data formatting tools in LookML that can be used to customize the appearance and behavior of data points. This includes field-level LookML settings like custom value formats, HTML, drill links, and data actions.

Cells have a `value` property, which is the only property guaranteed to exist in all cases. This property is a native JavaScript type that matches the type of the field the cell belongs to. However, it's not safe to insert directly into HTML or SVG, as no HTML escaping has been performed, and some field values are complex JavaScript objects or arrays that will render in undesirable or confusing ways.

To ensure that all visualizations render these items consistently and safely, there are a number of utility functions for turning the cell metadata passed to your chart in `data` into different representations for different purposes. The cell metadata may compress or omit certain fields in some cases, and these helper functions will let you provide a consistent experience.

These are all available on the global `LookerCharts.Utils` object.


- `LookerCharts.Utils.textForCell(cell)`

	This function accepts a cell and returns a string representation of it suitable for display. It will always be a string – this function never returns `null` or any other type.

- `LookerCharts.Utils.htmlForCell(cell)`

	This function accepts a cell and returns a string containing HTML. It will always be a string – this function never returns `null` or any other type.

	The output of this function is properly escaped and suitable for directly inserting into your element's HTML. The output HTML will also correctly display the drill menu on click when appropriate for the data.

- `LookerCharts.Utils.filterableValueForCell(cell)`

	This function accepts a cell and returns a Looker advanced filter syntax string that would match the value of this cell.

- `LookerCharts.Utils.toggleCrossfilter({row, pivot, event})`

	This function accepts a row, pivot, or event and is used to check if crossfiltering is enabled for a visualization. For example, to add an event listener to an element that checks if crossfiltering is enabled when the event occurs:

	```js
	d3.select(#myElement)
	.on("click", function (d) {
  		if (details.crossfilterEnabled) {
    			LookerCharts.Utils.toggleCrossfilter({
      				row: d.row,
      				event: d3.event,
    			});
  		} else {
		  ...
	```

- `LookerCharts.Utils.getCrossfilterSelection(row, pivot?)`

	This function accepts a row or pivot and is used to check if that row or pivot is currently selected in a custom visualization. The function returns an enum for `CrossfilterSelection {NONE, SELECTED, UNSELECTED}` of 0 if `NONE`, 1 if `SELECTED`, and 2 if `UNSELECTED`.

	For example, to conditionally apply a fill color to a row if it is being crossfiltered and apply default colors if crossfiltering is not enabled for that row:

	```js
	d3.select("#myElement")
  	.attr("fill", function (d) {
    	const crossfilter = LookerCharts.Utils.getCrossfilterSelection(d.row)
    	if (details.crossfilterEnabled && crossfilter === 1) {
        		return d.color
      	} else {
        		return "#DEE1E5" //Hex used for unselected elements in native visualizations
	...
	```

- `LookerCharts.Utils.openDrillMenu(options)`

	The output of `htmlForCell` will automatically show the drill menu if needed, but that may not be appropriate for certain types of rendering. (For example, SVG cannot render HTML but you may want to capture a click event to begin a drill.)

	The `options` object has the following parameters:

	- `links` **Required** _array_

		An array of the objects returned from the `links` property of a cell. If you want to display links for multiple cells at once, you may concatenate these arrays together first. For custom links, provide an array of objects with the following form: <pre><code>{ label: _string_, type: 'drill', type_label: _string_, url: _url_ }</code></pre>

	- `event` _HTML DOM Event_

		The click (or other) event that caused the drill event. Looker will use this to determine where to place the drill menu. If you don't have one, try passing an object with the pageX and pageY coordinates.

	**Example:**

	```js
	for (var row in data) {
		foreach(var row in data) {
			var cell = data[queryResponse.fields.dimensions[0].name];
			var cellElement = myBuildElementFunction(cell);
			cellElement.onclick = function(event) {
				LookerCharts.Utils.openDrillMenu({
					links: cell.links,
					event: event
				});
			};
			// ... more visualization stuff...
		}
	}
	```

## Presenting Configuration UI

The `options` parameter is an object where the keys are an arbitrary identifier for an option name, and the value is an object describing information about the option.

Here's an example:

```js
options: {
    color_range: {
      type: "array",
      label: "Color Range",
      display: "colors"
    },
   top_label: {
      type: "string",
      label: "Label (for top)",
      placeholder: "My Great Chart"
    },
    transport_mode: {
      type: "string",
      label: "Mode of Transport",
      display: "select",
      values: [
      	 {"Airplane": "airplane"},
      	 {"Car": "car"},
      	 {"Unicycle": "unicycle"}
      ],
      default: "unicycle"
    }
}
```

### Option Object Parameters

##### Basic Parameters

- `type` _string_

	The data type of the option.

	**Allowed Values:** `string` (default), `number`, `boolean`, `array`

- `label` _string_

	The human-readable label of the option that will be displayed to the user.

- `default`

	The default value of the option. When unspecified, the value of the option is `null`. This should be a value of the same type as `type`.

- `display` _string_

	Certain `type`s can be presented in the UI in different ways.

	- when `type` is `string`:

	   	**Allowed Values:** `text` (default), `select`, `radio`

	- when `type` is `number`:

	   	**Allowed Values:** `number` (default), `range`

	- when `type` is `array`:

	   	**Allowed Values:** `text` (default), `color`, `colors`

- `placeholder` _string_

	For `display` values that support it, an example value or explanation to give the user a hint about what to type.

##### Display-specific properties

- `values` _array_ of _objects_

	When `display` is `radio` or `select`, an array containing labels and values that will be listed in the interface.

	Each item in the array should be an object with a single key-value pair, representing the label and the value of the option. The label will only be presented in the UI, at render time you'll only receive the value.

	**Example:**

	```js
	values: [
		{"Center": "c"},
		{"Left": "l"},
		{"Right": "r"}
	]
	```

	If `display` is `radio`, each option can additionally be given a `description`:

	```js
	values: [
		{"Cool": "c"},
		{"Uncool": {
				value: "unc",
				description: "Only choose this if the data is very uncool."
			}
		}
	]
	```

- `max` _number_

	When `display` is `range`, the maximum number allowed to be selected by the range slider.

- `min` _number_

	When `display` is `range`, the minimum number allowed to be selected by the range slider.

- `step` _number_

	When `display` is `range`, the amount each tick of the range slider represents.

##### Organizing options

- `section` _string_

	For charts with many options, a label for which section an option should appear in. The UI will group the options by their `section` values. If there is only one section, the section UI will not be shown.

	If you're using `section` then it should be set on every option.

- `order` _number_

	A number representing the order of options for presentation in the UI. If specified, the options will be sorted according to this order.

- `display_size` _string_

	A size class representing the width of the option in the UI. For example, if you wanted to show a "Minimum" and a "Maximum" option next to each other, you could set each of their `display_size`s to `half`.

	**Allowed Values:** `normal` (default), `half`, `third`

## Events

Events can be triggered by the chart (usually in response to user interaction) that can update properties of the visualization or query.

They can be triggered by calling the `trigger` function on the visualization object. The first parameter is always the _event name_ and the second parameter is an array of _arguments_.

```js
this.trigger("limit", [20]);
```

#### Available Events

- `updateConfig`

	Update the current configuration settings of the chart.

	**Argument:** an object containing config keys to update. Unspecified keys are not changed.

	**Example:**

	```js
	var vis = this;
	$(element).find(".axis").click(function(){
		vis.trigger("updateConfig", [{axis_hidden: true}]
	});
	```

- `limit`

	Update the limit of the underlying query:

	**Argument:** an integer representing a new limit for the query.

	```js
	var vis = this;
	$(element).find(".show-all").click(function(){
		vis.trigger("limit", [500]);
	});
	```

- `filter`

	Update the value of a filter on the underlying query:

	```js
	var vis = this;
	$(element).find(".show-all-tommys").click(function(){
		vis.trigger("filter", [{
			field: "users.name", // the name of the field to filter
			value: "%tommy%", // the "advanced syntax" for the filter
			run: true, // whether to re-run the query with the new filter
		}]);
	});
	```

- `loadingStart`

	Mark the visualization as loading. Most of the time this isn't neccessary, but if your visualization loads an object from a remote location or performs a long calculation you can use this to continue to display the loading indicator.

	It will appear loading until `loadingEnd` is triggered.

- `loadingEnd`

	Mark the visualization as no longer loading.

- `registerOptions` (Looker 5.24+)

	Allows visualizations to register additional options after the visualization has been registered:

	```
	  update: function(data, element, config, queryResponse, details){
	    options = {}
	    // Create an option for each measure in your query
	    queryResponse.fields.measure_like.forEach(function(field) {
	      id = "color_" + field.name
	      options[id] =
	      {
		label: field.label_short + " Color",
		default: "#8B7DA8",
		section: "Style",
		type: "string",
		display: "color"
	      }
	    })
	    this.trigger('registerOptions', options) // register options with parent page to update visConfig
	    ...
	  }
	});
	```
